# JDBC Driver options

The SeeFusion JDBC driver wrapper accepts several arguments to provide you with more granular tracking of your database interaction. All options for the SeeFusion JDBC driver wrapper are specified using name=value pairs seperated by semicolons (";") at the end of the SeeFusion JDBC URL string entered in ColdFusion Administrator (URL parameters are appended to the SeeFusion JDBC URL following the closing curly brace (e.g., jdbc:seefusion:jdbcwrapper:{...};notifyCount=1500). These parameter names are NOT case-sensitive. The complete list of JDBC parameters and their use below:

| Parameter | Default | Description |
| --------- | ------- | ----------- |
driver | none | Specifes the name of the class of the driver that SeeFusion is wrapping. If specified, the SeeFusion driver will attempt to load the specified driver class (using "Class.forName()") the first time this parameter is specified.<br>Example:<br>;driver=com.myfavdb.Driver<br><br>Note: If you are having problems verifying a SeeFusion-wrapped datasource, you may need to add this parameter to your SeeFusion JDBC URL in order to allow SeeFusion to locate and load your driver.
notifyCount | 0 | The SeeFusion JDBC driver can alert you when a query retrieves an excessive number of rows from the database. If you want SeeFusion to log this information, set a notify threshold (a number of rows) at which SeeFusion should log the query to stdout. SeeFusion will also log the total number of rows retrieved by the query, once the query is complete.<br><br>Note: By default, ColdFusion/Lucee send stdout to a log file.
remindCount | 0 | After SeeFusion reaches the notifyCount, you can have it repeatedly log the number of rows fetched, at the interval specified by this parameter. For example, if a query retrieved 36777 rows, and you had notifyCount set to 5000 and remindCount set to 10000, then SeeFusion would log the query at 5000 rows, then log the number of rows again when the query reaches 15000, 25000, 35000, then 36777 rows.
rowLimit | 0 | When this parameter is added to the SeeFusion JDBC URL, all SeeFusion-wrapped datasources will be limited to returning only the number of rows specified. This is useful for preventing exceptionally large result sets from causing OutOfMemory and related errors.<br><br>Example:<br>;rowLimit=1500
dsn | blank | When this parameter is added to the SeeFusion JDBC URL, the ColdFusion datasource name used for the query will appear in the SeeFusion display for ACTIVE queries, along with other query information.<br>Example:<br>;dsn=CFAdminDSNName